---
layout: post
author: blainesch
title: "Using Travis"
description: "Why we switched to travis, and why it might be right for you."
tags: [travis, ci, continual integration, jenkins]
comments: true
---

Continuous Integration, or CI for short, runs your automated tests. This will usually occur after every push to your codebase, before merges, and before deploys. This will quickly alert you when the behavior of your app changes unexpectedly before any of the new code makes it to production.

### Enhancing Peer Review
Hopefully we all practice some form of peer review in our process. Currently, on our consumer team, all code goes through a pull request which requires so many people to approve it before it gets merged in. During this process we make sure creator added the correct tests, and can easily see if those new tests have passed, and if they broke older tests. All without leaving the pull request screen. This speeds up review and allows for a faster workflow.

### Travis vs Jenkins
The company had been using Jenkins since the day I got here. When we started looking into alternatives to our current CI we found lots of options that offered lots of different services. Some installed on your servers, others were strictly services, and a handful offered both. We already had experience using Travis on a few of our open source projects, and I had strongly advocated to use it all over the company.

Here are a few things I belive make Travis stand out above the rest.

#### State is not shared
With most projects you want to upgrade to newer versions, but with our current CI solution this was not an option. With travis if you want to upgrade to a newer version of PHP, Ruby, or even Mongo they make it very easy to configure your tests to run under those various versions. Every time you run your tests, they are on its very own VM so installing a different version of one of these and seeing if your tests pass is simple. You can optionally allow specific versions to fail, so they don't fail your entire build while you work to get those versions fixed.
Having a new VM spawn for each set of tests has many other benefits like knowing old tests don't effect the new ones, making sure your setup scripts work correctly, and giving you more security in knowing cloud deployment can be simple.

#### Easy to setup
Why do we feel travis is better? We regularly spent hours and hours trying to get jenkins working correctly after it just randomly borks. This was causing lots of lost developer time and lost business opportunity. Travis only has a [small configuration file](http://docs.travis-ci.com/user/build-configuration/) we needed to setup, then it magically just worked. This is similar to having less code, we now had a lot less to maintain, which also means more developers can debug it instead of just resident experts.

#### Works with Github
Out of the box this works with github and our pull request process. We had a plugin for jenkins to do this but it didn't always work the way we wanted it to. This is such a fundamental part of how Travis works, I can't imagine this ever not working.

### Problems
Of course, not everying is perfect. Here is a list of things I wish Travis would do better.

#### Build Status
Integration the build status onto the dashboard we found to have a few issues. When asking their API for the state of the "dev" or "master" branch, for some reason, this also includes pull requests into those branches. For example if a pull request into "dev" is failing, our dev branch would return as failing.
We got around this by just requesting the latest builds and iterating over until we found the correct branch and build status. Our dashboard is complete.

##### Traffic
When we used Jenkins each team had their own instance of Jenkins installed. It ran a single build one at a time and in only one version. With the capabilities of Travis each "build" has multiple jobs for each version, so we use it more, and every team shares the same travis plan so we often have backed up builds.
The solution to this problem was setting up most of our projects to only build on the primary branches and pull requests.

### Why you shouldn't choose Travis
Travis is tied very closely with Git and GitHub, if you are not using either of these solutions then Travis may not be right for you.
