---
layout: post
author: blainesch
title: "Using Travis"
description: "Why we switched to travis, and why it might be right for you."
tags: [travis, ci, continual integration, jenkins]
comments: true
---

Let's start with a little background. The company has been using Jenkins since the day I got here. When we started looking into alternatives to our current CI we found lots of options that offered lots of different services. Some installed on your servers, some were strictly services yet most offered both. We already had experience using Travis on a few of our open source projects, and I had strongly advocated to use it all over the company.

### Easy to Configure
Why do we feel travis is better? After hours and hours of trying to get jenkins working correctly most of us were frustrated and wanted a service that did a lot of this for us, since losing time was lost opportunity we cannot get back. Travis offers a small configuration file that will get you up and running quickly. This is already made easier to manage then Jenkins.
Learn more about [Traivs build configuration](http://docs.travis-ci.com/user/build-configuration/).

### Works with Github
Out of the box this works with github and our pull request process. We had a plugin for jenkins to do this but it didn't always work the way we wanted it to. This is such a fundamental part of how Travis works, I can't imagine this ever not working.

### State is not shared
With most projects you want to upgrade to newer versions, but with our current CI solution this was not an option. With travis if you want to upgrade to a newer version of PHP, Ruby, or even Mongo they make it very easy to configure your tests to run under those various versions. Every time you run your tests it's on it's very own VM so installing a different version of one of these and seeing if your tests pass is a piece of cake. You can optionally allow specific versions to fail, so they don't fail your build while you work to get those versions fixed.
Having a new VM spawn for each set of tests has many other benefits like knowing old tests don't effect the new ones, making sure your setup scripts work correctly, and giving you more security in knowing cloud deployment can be simple.

### Problems

#### Build Status
Integration the build status onto the dashboard we found to have a few issues. When asking their API for the state of the "dev" or "master" branch, for some reason, this also includes pull requests into those branches. For example if a pull request into "dev" is failing, our dev branch would return as failing.
We got around this by just requesting the latest builds and iterating over until we found the correct branch and build status. Our dashboard is complete.

#### Traffic
When we used Jenkins each team had their own instance of Jenkins installed. It ran a single build one at a time and in only one version. With the capabilities of Travis each "build" has multiple jobs for each version, so we use it more, and every team shares the same travis plan so we often have backed up builds.
The solution to this problem was setting up most of our projects to only build on the primary branches and pull requests.

### Why you shouldn't choose Travis
Travis is tied very closely with Git and GitHub, if you are not using either of these solutions then Travis may not be right for you.
